= DB2Fog

A rails plugin to backup Mysql or PostgreSQL to a cloud storage provider. You're looking at
a monthly spend of four cents. So pony up you cheap bastard, and store your
backups offsite.

A grandfather style system is used to decide what backups to keep copies of:

* all backups from the past 24 hours
* one backup per day for the past week
* one backup per week forever

Depending on your tolerance for data loss you should be running a backup at
least once a day, probably more.

== Installation

Add the following to your project Gemfile

  gem "db2fog"

== Configuration

Add the following to config/initializers/db2fog.rb

In general, you can use any configuration options supported by
Fog::Storage.new, plus the :directory option. If fog adds support for extra
providers they should work with just a config change to Db2Fog.

=== Amazon S3

  DB2Fog.config = {
    :aws_access_key_id     => 'yourkey',
    :aws_secret_access_key => 'yoursecretkey',
    :directory             => 'bucket-name',
    :provider              => 'AWS'
  }

=== Rackspace Cloudfiles

  DB2Fog.config = {
    :rackspace_username => 'username',
    :rackspace_api_key  => 'api key',
    :directory          => 'bucket-name',
    :provider           => 'Rackspace'
  }

=== Local Storage

  DB2Fog.config = {
    :directory  => 'bucket-name',
    :local_root => Rails.root.to_s + '/db/backups',
    :provider   => 'Local'
  }

== Passing options to the database driver

Database adaptors may support further configuration via the :database_options hash.

  DB2Fog.config = {
    :directory  => 'bucket-name',
    :local_root => Rails.root.to_s + '/db/backups',
    :provider   => 'Local',
    :database_options => {
      :pg_version => 8
    }
  }

Supported database options:

pg_version    8 or 9
  The major version of PostgreSQL installed on the server. Defaults to 9.

== Usage

  # Add to your crontab or whatever
  rake db2fog:backup:full

  # Handy tasks
  rake db2fog:restore  # You should be testing this regularly
  rake db2fog:clean    # Clean up old backups - cron this

=== Alternative

If you want to trigger backups from ruby (say, from a delayed job) you can
do this:

    DB2Fog.new.backup
    DB2Fog.new.clean

== Compatibility

This is pure so ruby should run on most ruby VMs. I develop on MRI 1.9.2.

This will only work with rails 3. Supporting earlier versions is more
complication than I feel like handling at the moment.

== Development

Specs are a little weak and mysql based. This code is bit hackish but is being
used by quite a few people.

== Kudos

This is a fork of Xavier Shay's db2s3 gem. It worked perfectly, but only
supported Amazon S3 within US-east. By switching the dependency to using fog
this now supports all S3 regions and multiple storage providers

Xavier's original gem is available at https://github.com/xaviershay/db2s3

Xavier quotes the following example as inspiration:

http://github.com/pauldowman/blog_code_examples/tree/master/mysql_s3_backup
